# Zwift config file variables 2016-12-08

This guide attempts to explain how the variables in the Zwift config files affect the game's graphics performance.

Use at your own risk. This comes with no guarantees or support from Zwift Head Quarters and variables are subject to change without notice.

Also, be aware that changing contents, or permissions, of configuration files may affect the ability for the application update process to complete its actions.


## Textures resolution

Sets the graphics resolution/detail of the world.


### Examples

basic

```
res 1024x576(0x)
```

medium, high

```
res 1280x720(0x)
```

ultra

```
res 1920x1080(0x)
```


## Shadow resolution

Sets the resolution of the shadows generated by all objects.

Might be a bit more dependent on CPU than GPU.

Higher numbers increase realism but decrease FPS.

### Examples

very low
```
sres 256x256
```

low
```
sres 512x512
```

high
```
sres 1024x1024
```

ultra
```
sres 2048x2048
```

## Screen space ambient occlusion

Enables or disables higher quality lighting & shadows.

The effect is subtle but increases realism dramatically.

Dependent on GPU.

Might require discrete GPU and OpenGL 3.1 or higher.

On increases realism but decreases FPS.


### Examples

On (High and Ultra)

```
set gSSAO=1
```

Off

```
set gSSAO=0
```


## Fast approximate anti-aliasing

Enables or disables smoothing of model edges

On increases realism but decreases FPS

### Examples

On

```
set gFXAA=1
```

Off

```
set gFXAA=0

```

## Frames per second indicator

Show the real-time FPS in top left corner

### Examples

On

```
set gShowFPS=1
```

Off
```
set gShowFPS=0
```


## Sun Rays

Enables or disables fancy sun rays.

On increases realism but decreases FPS.

Might require discrete GPU and OpenGL 3.1 or higher.

### Examples

On

```
set gSunRays=1
```

Off
```
set gSunRays=0
```


## Headlight

Enable headlight on bike.

On increase realism but decrease FPS.

Might require discrete GPU and OpenGL 3.1 or higher.

### Examples

On

```
set gHeadlight=1
```

Off
```
set gHeadlight=0
```

## Foliage Percent

Sets the level of auto-generated scenery - trees, grass, flowers, underwater vegetation, etc.

This is a very effective way to manipulate the environment to suit your preferred FPS.

A number between 0 and 1 is normal.

Higher number increases scenery density / realism but decrease FPS.

Lower number decreases scenery density / realism but increases FPS.

Examples:
* 0 = 0%
* 0.25 = 25%
* 0.5 = 50%
* 0.75 = 75%
* 1 - 100%
* 5 = 500% - be very careful!


### Examples

low

```
set gFoliagePercent=0.25
```

normal

```
set gFoliagePercent=1
```

extreme

```
set gFoliagePercent=5
```


## Simple Reflections

Enables or disables simple reflections on water, glass, metal, carbon, cobbles, etc.

Off increases realism but decreases FPS.

Might require discrete GPU and OpenGL 3.1 or higher.

On

```
set gSimpleReflections=1
```

Off

```
set gSimpleReflections=0
```

## Level of detail bias

Not too sure of how this variable works.

Appears to draw models with fewer polygons when value is set to 2 or higher.

Bike riders look very low fi, and may even vanish when gLODBias=5.



### Examples


very low detail

```
set gLODBias=2
```

low detail

```
set gLODBias=1
```

normal

```
set gLODBias=0
```


## Heads Up Display

Enables or disables the heads up display overlays.

Set to 0 for making cool videos free from rider names and other info.

### Examples

On (default)

```
set g_bDrawHud=1
```

Off

```
set g_bDrawHud=0
```


## ANISO

Improves the clarity and crispness of textured objects in game.

Appears to be deprecated.


## Default Configuration file contents

On Windows these are located under:

```
C:\Program Files (x86)\Zwift\data\configs
```

### basic.txt
```
res 1024x576(0x)
sres 512x512
aniso 4
set gSSAO=0
set gFXAA=1
set gSunRays=0
set gHeadlight=0
set gFoliagePercent=0.5
set gSimpleReflections=1
set gLODBias=2

```

### medium.txt
```
res 1280x720(0x)
sres 1024x1024
aniso 4
set gSSAO=0
set gFXAA=1
set gSunRays=0
set gHeadlight=0
set gFoliagePercent=0.5
set gSimpleReflections=1
set gLODBias=1

```

### high.txt
```
res 1280x720(0x)
sres 1024x1024
aniso 4
set gSSAO=1
set gFXAA=1

```


### ultra.txt
```
res 1920x1080(0x)
sres 2048x2048
aniso 4
set gSSAO=1
set gFXAA=1


```

## How to make a custom config file

Follow these steps to make a custom config file.

1. backup `C:\Program Files (x86)\Zwift\data\configs` 
   on Mac OS `~/Library/Application Support/Zwift/data/configs/`

1. find out which profile Zwift gives you by dropping your log.txt on http://zwiftalizer.com

  On Windows, the logs are located under:

  ```
  %HOMEPATH%\Documents\Zwift\Logs
  ```
  
  On Mac OS, the logs are located under:

  ```
  ~/Documents/Zwift/Logs
  ```

1. As an Administrator, Edit the contents of the config file that matches the profile your system was given.
For example, a Radeon 7870 gets the high profile, so we need to edit
`C:\Program Files (x86)\Zwift\data\configs\high.txt`


## Example Custom Configs


### Basic overrides for increased FPS on low end systems

Edit basic.txt.

* Lower shadow resolution
* Lower foliage percent
* Higher level of detail bias (less detailed models).


```
res 1024x576(0x)
sres 256x256
aniso 4
set gSSAO=0
set gFXAA=0
set gSunRays=0
set gHeadlight=0
set gFoliagePercent=0.1
set gSimpleReflections=1
set gLODBias=3

```
### Basic overrides for increased realism on late 2013 iMac 21.5" 1920x1080 with Intel Iris Pro Graphics 1536 MB VRAM

Intel Iris Pro is a fairly decent integrated GPU. It can handle some increased resolution and lighting effects.

Edit basic.txt.

* Higher world graphics resolution
* Higher quality lighting & shadows (gSSAO on)
* Sun Rays On
* Higher polygon count models (gLODBias=1.5)
* 30-40 FPS at 1080

res 1280x720(0x)
sres 512x512
set gSSAO=1
set gFXAA=1
set gSunRays=1
set gHeadlight=0
set gFoliagePercent=0.5
set gSimpleReflections=1
set gLODBias=1.5
set gShowFPS=1   

### Ultra override for medium to high end Radeon and Nvidia cards that don't get Ultra by default.

Edit basic.txt or high.txt depending on which profile Zwift gives you by default.

* Higher world graphics resolution
* Higher shadow resolution
* Higher quality lighting & shadows (gSSAO on)
* Higher quality reflections (default in High and Ultra, gSimpleReflections off)
* Headlight On (default in High and Ultra)
* Increased auto-generated scenery (gFoliagePercent 200%)
* High polygon count riders and bikes (default in High and Ultra, gLODBias=0)

```
res 1920x1080(0x)
sres 2048x2048
set gSSAO=1
set gFXAA=1
set gSimpleReflections=0
set gSunRays=1
set gHeadlight=1
set gFoliagePercent=2
set gLODBias=0
set gShowFPS=1

```

It is debatable whether you will notice the difference of ultra `res` and `sres` on a 1080 display.

If you can't tell, then revert the first two lines to:

```
res 1280x720(0x)
sres 1024x1024
```

Experiment with gFoliagePercent to increase auto-generated scenery.

Stop increasing it when your FPS drops below what you are comfortable viewing.



### Ultra 1440 and 4K resolution option override

Do this if you have an ultra display but do not have the option in-game to select 1440 or 4K and are confident your GPU can run at the resolution you choose.


Edit prefs.config in `%HOMEPATH%\Documents\Zwift\prefs.xml`

Change the USER_RESOLUTION_PREF to your preferred display resolution


#### 1440 wide quad high definition (WQHD - 4 times as many pixels as 720 HD)

```
<USER_RESOLUTION_PREF>2560x1440</USER_RESOLUTION_PREF>

```

#### 2160 ultra high definition (4K - 4 times as many pixels as 1080 FHD)


```
<USER_RESOLUTION_PREF>3840×2160</USER_RESOLUTION_PREF>

```

## To Do

### Document these

* g_bEnableOculus=0
* gBloom=1 
* bloomStrength=0.08
* gVignette=1
* gColorCorrection=1 
* gSSR=0 

### Document Radeon Control Panel Optimizations

* AA: 8x, Standard, Supersampling, Morphological off
* AF 16x, High
* Surface Format Optimisation on
* VSync On
* Target Frame Rate 60


### Document GeForce Control Panel Optimizations

* VSync On
* Target Frame Rate 60


